---
title: "Some Thoughts About Math"
date: 2023-02-15T18:02:29-06:00
author: "Weifan Zhou"
slug:
draft: false
toc: false
---
<p>This is my first English blog article. Probably there are some grammatical errors, and thanks for your patient. </p>
<p>Recently I am reading [A Mathematician's Lament]. With the discussion about problems traditional k12 math education, I was touched. The fisrt half of the book helped organize all I wanted to ask about my junior high school math.</p>
<p>This paragraph is my story. My math was the worst in my junior high school. Most of the time, the exams were about algebra. All I shall do is to add aided lines to prove a claim like "showing angle XXX is 45 degrees". Vast amount of possible lines came into my mind, but not all of them would work, and I would not try all of them. Homework was a lot, and exam time was limited. Each time my math teacher announced time was up, I struggled with questions uncompleted. Junior high school algebra turned to be my anxiety. "Which aided lines should be added here?" If I made a guess and failed to work out, time lost. Gradually, I did not dare to walk my first step for proof. I did not understand, why the teacher add aided lines in a fixed way, and how did my classmates come up with the standard solution. All the anxiety accumulated. In 2018, when the mock graduation test ended, I was afraid of the teacher saying "if you done this question wrong, stand up" and giving a criticism, I asked my mother to text the teacher, that I would be absent the next day. She agreed, and the teacher permitted.</p>
<p>Nobody told me why made aided lines in a specific way. All I heard was "this is a xxx model, so add like that", but why? Until later my senior high school friend told me, "I came up with xxx because this dot (pointing at the center of the circle) looked strange". Well, it was not a perfect explination for me because I don't understand how to define "strange", but at least it was a reason.</p>
<p>Another anxiety was calculation. My 2 junior high school teachers criticized calculation mistakes, and my senior high school teacher was confused about "silly mistakes". But one thing my senior high school teacher talked about (when having discussion with my mother) was "math is intuition". I wasn't fully understand that time, but later I found out (partially it also means calculation is not the core of a math. I mean, math is not supposed to be a calculation tool).</p>
<p>The lucky thing is, in 2023, when I am taking the "Logic, Sets, and Proof" in college, my professor treats math as an art and philosophy. At the same time, I am reading [Logic: A Very Short Introduction] such that I came up with an idea: proof is using a clear way to persuade others in a reasonable way. Or probably, it's the ability to explain the ideas. My thinking with mathematical proof might not be perfect, but I feel relieved. The first or second day, my professor was doing proof, writing "there exists ... such that" (to my opinion "such that" is like "which allows") and paused. I can't remember if he introduced the philosophy idea of existence, but existence was something that he emphasized. What I remember is "Which came first: chicken or the egg" flew my mind, and suddenly I gasped. Proof is the representation of the world! It's a philosophy! Damm! (When I was writing this blog, the scene in this paragraph triggers my senior high school's favorite slogan (printed on the school advertisement), "existence precedes essence" by Jean-Paul Sartre, and I was shocked again. Probably this slogan wasn't connected with math, but now I am amazed by it.) </p>
<p>The word "intuition" wirls in my mind. I cannot explain it clearly. Intuition of Domino (well, my math professor mentioned it when talking about induction)? Or the intuition of solving a problem (the road between claim and conclusion)? I don't know (lol). But my confidence is gradually back.</p>
<p>And back to the book.</p>
<p>My conclusion from the book is, math is not just a tool, nor should it be recitation. And for myself, the junior high school math, is not "math". I agree, math is like art (maybe pure and simplicity, but I can't describe it exactly).</p>
<p>Today when my group wrote down "loves(x,y)", the professor talked with us. "We need to define 'loves'... （can't remember) We need to make sure it's x loves y, not reversible" (ahh, a sad story (lol)), he beamed, "It's quite Valentine's Day, right?"</p>
<p></p>
<p>(Written on Feb. 15, when I sent the email to math faculty. Highly possible, since the next week, I am from CS+PSYC majors --> CS major + Psyc & Math minors.)</p>
