---
title: "Cope With Anxiety"
date: 2024-02-29T16:04:00-06:00
author: "Weifan Zhou"
slug:
draft: false
toc: false
---
<p>This week, I tried to cope with my anxiety to a bunch of coursework. Something poped into my mind:</p> <p>In my piano lesson, my Professor asked me: Flora, why you played those notes quiet? There's something in your mind than reminds you to play quiet. Try to play everything loud this week, so you no longer need to think about "quiet".</p> <p>Yeah, previously I tried to print my readings out, so that I didn't need to rely on my iPad for reading assignments and then got distracted. But there was another case that I asked myself: "hey Flora, when you appraoched deadline, you did not get distracted at all!" So procrastination may neither be completely from self-decipline, nor totally coming from electronic devices themselves.</p> <p>When I tried to "control" myself, I found that did not help, because any distractions, or "the stuff I tried to control" was still in my mind, and that was a burden. Why not that throw that away?</p> <p>Here is a useful method I found: lie on you bed and think -- you spend too much time and procrastinate on your laptops? Well, you don't procrastinate on your laptop when writing essays. Just throw it away. I packed all those thoughts and threw them off, and the next day, "procrastinate on PC" never came into my mind. I feel more relief.</p> <p>Meanwhile, I realized lots of tasks, like swiping on Insagram, was not something I am interested in. Rather than thinking of "I am not gonna swipe Instagram today", just forget about Instagram and autoplay! The best way is to turn off everything, like internet and notification when they are not popping into your mind, and turn those functions on when you want to check them.</p> <p>Whenever you think something has limited yourself, encourage yourself, "nothing matters", and throw that off your mind.</p>